He chilled me, unlike the bitter winters of home ever could.
It was something in the calmness of his echoing voice, or the purpose of his stride, that gave a sense of hollow foreboding I hadn’t felt before.
I felt it since he first spoke to me, that cold void, and though I smiled and played my part, the coldness stayed with me.
He looks towards me, his eyes glow in green haze, slits in the mask that is his face, politeness in every breathy word and what might be a cruel grin.

"Greetings Ashe", chains clink and the lantern rattles as he sweeps his arm low in a formal bow, "chief of the Avarosan and rightful queen of the Freljord."
Empty words from a tongue-less mouth. Practiced and formal. Deliberate.

He rises from his supplication, metal clang of chains and keys, his mask turned up towards me, vacant eyes deathly still.
No breath passed his lips, no breeze rustled his cloak, but the mask billowed restlessly in the not-wind.
Waiting for me.
I almost choked on my words.
"Greetings warden Thresh, it is an honour to have the assistance of the shadow isles."

A cold raspy laugh as the corners of the mask-mouth jerk up into a smirk.
"Not at all my dear," his echoing chuckle chilled the sentiment.  "I'm sure this will be a most invigorating day."

***

Winters at home are harsh at best.
On the moonless nights the fires may be dim, small, and warmth only a distant memory.
But the cold was home, its brisk embrace kept me whole, reminding me who I am.
This was different.
The chill runs through me, nagging and persistent.
Crouching behind a rock I feel the shade creep over me, my heart pumps ice through a frozen body, steady beating.
I clutch my bow, holding close the symbol of my people, of my strength, but the limbs rattle where my arms begin to shiver.
I must not let it consume me.
The chain warden is an ally.

A blast of wind rushes past me, breaking my reverie.
Fierce and alive, it lifts the stones and dust and hurls the maelstrom at my shelter.
Amidst the flurry of leaves and pebbles i remembered warmth.
The heat of battle.

I dive from my cover and dash towards the tall grass.
I run, catching a glimpse of the storm's fury overhead.
She glides through the air, a graceful dancer on her cloudy stage.
She twirls her arms and flicks the staff, leading the wind effortlessly in her aerial ballet.
And the air dances with her, willing partner, trailing golden hair and ghostly cloth through the breezy heights, jubilant as a festival streamer.

As I duck into the grass, its stillness swallows me whole.
The nagging coldness returns.
Thresh waits here, propped against a small shrub, an arrow juts sideways from his calf, black ooze dripping from the wound.
The empty mask admires the arrow, no pain crosses his face nor tenses his body, but a careful studiousness, almost curiosity.
His hands move, calm and patient, grasping the arrow by its shaft and sliding it out.
Tendrils of black sludge cling to the tip, trailing ghostly strands, threads of corruption, spun like spiders' silk through the air and sinking lazily to the ground.
"The dark one has good aim, but the one in the sky is bothersome."

He angles the mask upwards as if to peer over the taller reeds.
Chilling hands grasp the chain with purpose now, readying himself.
At this slightest movement the lantern, once trailing the ground, seems to come alive.
In its eerie core the lights glisten, and a steady pendulous swaying takes hold of the grim ornament, trailing greenish haze like so much spectral incense.
Fouling the air with the souls of the dead.
It anticipates what is to come.
As must I.

I duck low and step out from the grass, cold silence abating again.
This passageway is alive with wind and danger.
The air itself snaps at me, biting at my eyes and face, fighting me to the ground.
And within the rushing squall, the tell-tale whisper of arrows in flight.
Dark arrows, shot with hatred and vengeance, without honour, without purpose.

I reach back and grasp an arrow in my own quiver.
Its wispy fletches rustle in the wind, the steady shaft rattles against the bow, the iron point rests heavy on my hand.
But this arrow must have greater purpose.
In my minds eye I see the Freljord, the storm around me becomes a blizzard, the rocks as shards of ice, and drifts of snow, the cold foreboding chill makes the winter within me real.
Opening my eyes I see the arrow locked in place, feathery tail brushing against my cheek, wooden stem stretching down to the cold tip, square on target.
Breathe out slowly, and with it the freeze leaves me, the chill in my fingertips passes up through my body, taking the cold with it, and out, onto the arrow.
Relax my fingertips, and the very embodiment of Freljord's winter is loosed against the storm.

The air is still now.
Above me its mistress drifts, frozen either in surprise or disbelief.
Her once elegant ballet turns panicked and uncontrolled, a graceful swan thrashing about with a broken wing, as her arm surely by now is frozen solid.
Winters in the Freljord can do far worse.
Distracted, she drops a small ways, lost in pain or cold, then lurches upwards as though the wind had tried to catch its partner.
But the dance is done as the dancer tries to leave the stage.
The warden will make it her prison.
I dread what comes next.

The shrill metal cries out from the bushes beside me, its cacophony ringing through the still passageway.
High in the sky the metal hook is tossed, arcing overhead like the headsman's axe, eager to fell its next victim.
And down it rushes, trailing that horrid chain behind it.
Somehow the crunch of ripping flesh is louder than the clang of iron, or her terrified scream.
The hook clings fast to her shoulder, caught as sure as any fish on a line.
Her scarlet blood runs from the puncture, dripping like red rain from the lofty heights.

The warden steps from the grass and into the open, the chains grasped in triumph.
The mask-eyes glow now, fierce and triumphant in their prize, mimicking the deathly light which emanates from his evil lantern.
This twisted fisherman hauls on the chain, dragging his wailing prize from the sky.
She drops, no strength left for the wind to save her, down to a hard earth, the cracking of bone and the rattling of chains rings through the clearing.

Thresh rushes at the fallen dancer with unnatural haste.
His reckless glee drives him to her crushed body, heedless.
His stride is unbroken, even when a dark arrow catches him in the side, seeping corrupted poison through his disembodied shell.
I follow this morbid display with unease, stepping slowly to the gruesome victory, mindful of the danger, the vengeful arrows, and the empty cold which draws upon me.

She lies on the dust, panting short sharp breaths, sobbing screams muted by fear or pain.
The warden waits, mask-eyes fixed on his prey, revelling in those moments before death.
Savouring.
"By your hand," manic excitement fills his reverberating words, "lady Ashe."
I reach again for my quiver.
The rough fletches scratch at my hand, the smooth shaft rests uneasy against the bow, the iron point sparkling with green lantern-light.
I do not often shoot with eyes closed, but i know the arrow went through her heart.